It's week two and it is Cake Week, and...
Wow!
Noel. That is amazing.
I love your commitment
to the theme of the week.
-No, I mean...
-No, no, don't.
Don't have to explain.
I've totally got it.
You are Marie-Antoinette,
because what is the one thing that we all
know about her that she famously said,
"Let them eat cake" and it's Cake Week.
It's just...
I love that you've bothered. I mean,
I don't want to nitpick, you know,
'cause historically probably
she never said it.
I think it's one of the great
misquotes of history.
I mean, if anything, she would have said,
"Let them eat brioche."
But the chances are
she never even mentioned cake.
I mean, people just said it about her
because, you know, they were mean.
But honestly, well done.
I don't know what you're talking about.
These are the only clothes
I had left that were clean.
Clean is good.
[Sandi] It's Cake Week.
This is not gonna go well.
[Sandi] The Signature Bake sees
temperatures rise.
Well, good luck calling it.
[Sandi] The bakers go green
for the Technical challenge.
Urgh. It's the weirdest thing
I've ever done for a cake.
[Sandi] And face a chocolate
Showstopper...
Lordy, lordy. It's hot.
[Sandi] ...on one of the hottest days...
[Antony] Under pressure.
[Sandi] ...the tent has ever seen.
Whoa!
It's okay.
[theme music playing]
[birds chirping]
[Luke] Cake Week.
Kinda looking forward to it.
'Cause I've been practising,
literally, non-stop.
Best of luck.
Even though I'm a baker,
cakes are not really my thing.
[Briony] So many things that can go
wrong with cake.
I'm trying not to think
about that right now. [chuckles nervously]
[Rahul] I am going to run out of time
today, so warning,
spoiler alert.
Beep. Beep. Beep. [chuckles]
Hello, bakers.
Welcome to Cake Week
and your Signature challenge.
Today the judges would like you
to create that classic crowd-pleaser,
a traybake. They want you
to tray and bake a cake.
That posh accent's not working for you.
You can use any type of sponge,
any flavour, but you must be able to make
16 identical slices from your traybake.
You've got two hours
to complete your Signature challenge.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake.
[Prue] A traybake, as name implies,
is baked in a tray.
Generally, they're the good,
old reliable sponge cakes
with, sort of, white icing on top.
But I would like to see something
I've never seen before.
You've gotta bite into it.
A little bit of crunch on the top's nice.
Hit that beautiful sponge
and of course, flavour.
They must get that flavour across to us
in a very small bite.
Time management is critical.
Get this wrong,
they're in a whole world of trouble.
-Good morning, Antony.
-Hello, Paul.
-Hello, Prue. Hey, Noel.
Tell us about your traybake.
So it's a frangipane with a nice sweet
pastry, pineapple jam,
and then a coconut burfi on top.
What is "burfi"?
It's like a coconut sweet really.
Just milk powder, desiccated coconut...
-Oh, delicious.
-...and sugar.
-Hi, Mama. How are you?
-[Maria] I'm doing well.
[Sandi] Antony lives in London
but calls his mum Maria,
back in Bangalore, every day.
How's the weather in Bangalore?
Oh, it's horrible.
[Sandi] Inspired by the burfi
he ate with his mum as a boy,
Antony's cardamom frangipane traybake,
blends Indian sweets
with classic British baking.
Sounds like a slightly
different bakewell tart, doesn't it?
Yeah, it's like an Indian bakewell tart.
I think you might have
invented something there.
Yeah.
[Noel] Briony is also attempting
to pull off a culture clash.
[Briony] I've gone for Spanish flavours
because I'm a massive fan
of Spain and all things Spanish,
so I wanted to sort of incorporate that
into the good old British traybake.
[Noel] Briony is currently training
for her third half-marathon
with her cockapoo, Archie.
And the race is on to complete her
traybake with an orange pastry base,
almond sponge and a chocolate ganache
on top of a soft Spanish nougat
called a "turron."
[Briony and Sandi greeting in Spanish]
[Briony greets in Spanish]
-[in English] Do you speak Spanish?
-[in Spanish] Sí. Claro que si.
-[in English] Do, do you really?
-Yes.
[Briony] I studied it at university.
-[Sandi] And your Danish?
-No.
But I'm gonna, you know...
I'm up for trying.
-We've got time.
-Yeah, teach me. Teach me.
You need actually, probably,
to get all the way through to the final.
I'm just saying,
if I'm gonna teach you anything...
-Yeah. Okay.
-Okay.
-Here we go. "Jeg er..."
-Jeg er.
-"Konge er."
-Konge er.
-"Danmark."
-Danmark.
-"Og jeg..."
-Og jeg.
-"Kan lide..."
-Kan lide.
-"Jordbær."
-Jordbær.
-Yeah.
-What did you just make me say?
"I'm the king of Denmark
and I like strawberries."
And I think that is gonna see you through
any part of Denmark
that you wish to go to.
[Dan] Come on.
[Sandi] Dan is also headed for Europe.
He's off to Germany via the 1970s.
It's a rip on a black forest gateau.
Maybe they were just trendy
when I was growing up
but you just don't see them
very much these days.
[Sandi] Despite being too young
to remember the '70s, as a boy,
black forest gateau
was Dan's absolute favourite.
He's making a vanilla cream topping
and will decorate with intricate
tempered chocolate,
but he's already discovered a problem.
I thought nobody else would do it
but unfortunately...
Chocolate, cherries, cream, is delicious.
Ruby's stealing my ideas.
Oh! Whoa. Whoa. Whoa.
Honestly. Less of that
stealing-the-idea business.
[Noel] Ruby's ideas in the kitchen
have usually been inspired
by her mum, Kalvinder.
[Kalvinder] Mmm. That's good.
[Ruby] Gotta say not as good
as Mum's though.
[Noel] Ruby made her black forest gateau
for her family last Christmas.
It has a dark chocolate ganache
and white chocolate drizzle on top
of a moist chocolate sponge.
I'm a bit worried because it's quite
a tendered chocolate sponge.
-Yeah.
-How are you
going to get it into neat slices?
The key thing for me is to make sure
that it's chilled, otherwise it could
turn into a sloppy mess.
Yeah, no pressure.
[Sandi] When it comes
to her sponge recipe...
[counting in French]
[Sandi]
...last week's Star Baker Manon,
has put herself under even more pressure.
[Manon] I'm not using any raising agent.
I'm only using the egg whites
actually are gonna make it fluffy.
-So it's quite a lot of eggs.
-[clucking]
[Sandi] When Manon left the family farm
in Brittany for London six years ago,
it awoke a passion for British baking.
Ow! [speaks French]
[Sandi in English]
Her raising agent-free traybake
with rosemary, honey and fresh figs,
was one of the first recipes
she learned in her adoptive home.
[Manon] My first job in London,
was a landlady where I used to work,
she made the best honey cake ever.
The risk is that it cannot raise.
[Noel] Terry's taking an even bigger risk
with his sponge batter.
What's this then?
[Terry] Uh, this is just an apple sauce.
[Paul] And where's that going?
[Terry] Into my batter.
It's interesting that you're using this
because there's a lot of liquid in apple.
It's a nice moist cake
and it actually...
it's better a few days after you make it.
[Noel] Terry also has the patience
to keep bees.
[Terry] It looks like I've got
a nice active little queen in there.
[Noel] Using their honey
to slowly brew his own beer.
Should be a nice sweet mix.
[Noel] There's an alcoholic kick
to his traybake
with rum-soaked raisins and dates
being added to his moist apple sponge.
Are we gonna taste the rum?
You will. There is a rum syrup that
goes on the top once the sponge is cool.
-A lot of rum?
-Hopefully.
I'm counting on it.
-Some rum shots on the side?
-I might, I might, yeah.
Just keep bringing the rum
and Prue will be happy.
[Sandi] Every minute
in the Signature challenge...
[Briony] Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh.
[Sandi] ...is now precious.
I need to get this into the oven ASAP.
[Sandi] The longer the bakers' large
traybake-sized sponges need in the oven...
Come on.
[Sandi] ...the less time
they'll have to cool.
And now, waiting time.
[Sandi] And a warm cake can't be sliced
and decorated.
[Ruby] Doesn’t that look delicious?
There we go. That's gonna be
in there for about 25 minutes.
This is going in for 35 minutes.
[Dan] This needs 20 minutes.
It's quite a thin cake.
It's a very short bake time.
So it's got lots of time to cool.
[beeping]
Bake well, my love.
[Noel] Now there's even more
to worry about.
Okey dokey.
[Noel] The judges will be expecting
each traybake sponge
to be accompanied by
complimentary fillings and toppings.
This is Valencia orange jam
but they still have a nice bitter taste.
You know when it's ready
when it hits when it hits 105.
Very helpfully it says "jam" on it,
actually.
And it also says "hard crack"
on there as well.
I'm not sure what that,
um, temperature's for.
[Jon] I am making my rosemary syrup.
I love rosemary.
You know, it reminds me
of Welsh lamb like, you know,
while I'm eating a lemon cake.
I think you should wear this one.
[Sandi] Jon also adds an unconventional
twist to his job
delivering blood to the NHS
by letting his daughters
Lucy and Hannah choose
what he wears to work.
[Lucy] Why not this one?
Oh, that is very nice. Your mother
doesn't like that one at all.
[Sandi] But mum and the girls have
all approved his Italian meringue
topped traybake
that pairs his favourite herb
with his favourite pudding.
[Jon] So I like lemon meringue pie,
so I thought I would try
a lemon meringue cake
rather than lemon meringue pie.
In the oven I'm making a pandan
chiffon traybake cake.
And what's "pandan"?
So pandan is like a long leaf
and you get juice from it.
[Prue] And does the pandan give colour
as well as flavour?
Yes.
[laughter]
That's revolting.
Do you know what... [laughs]
Do you know what it's like?
-[Noel] It's going well, I think.
-It's like I just cut me lawn.
It's like I just cut me lawn.
[Noel] Kim-Joy often bakes treats for her
and her partner Nabil's
marathon board game sessions.
Her pandan and coconut traybake
topped with palm sugar cream
is one of his favourites.
It's kinda of a love or hate flavour so...
Isn't that a dangerous thing to do?
[chuckles] I love it, so...
I quite like it.
-It's like pond water.
-[Kim-Joy] Do you? Yeah, it is.
-I think that could be delicious.
-Thanks.
Sort of reminding me of frog spawn.
[laughing]
Lovely.
[Noel] Bakers, you have one hour left.
Wow, if we've got an hour
we could cut your hair using this bowl.
[both laughing]
I'll take that.
[Karen] There's a saying
where I come from.
"A watched pot never boils."
[Sandi] The bakers now face
a crucial decision.
I'm a bit scared to look in the oven.
Cake's coming out in about a minute.
[Sandi] Take a traybake
out of the oven too soon
and the under-baked sponge
could collapse when it's cut.
Leave it too long, and not only do they
risk running out of cooling time...
[Ruby] Oh, no. Definitely more time.
Yeah, that's done.
[Sandi] ...but also tough, crumbly slices.
[Antony] Let's just wait for it.
Mmm...
Might have to whack the oven
temperature up a little bit maybe.
In fact, I'm gonna do that now.
Got about another
15 to 20 minutes left yet.
[sighs] Just a bit of a waiting game
now. [chuckles]
[Sandi] Back home in Sheffield,
a bake in the oven means a chance for Luke
to take Ruby, Oscar and Daisy
for one of their two walks a day
with his fiancée Kelly.
-You all right?
-Yeah, I'm losing my jeans.
[Sandi] They often return to his classic
lemon and poppy seed traybake
with a white chocolate
and mascarpone topping.
[Luke] Not sure
if it's cooked in this little bit.
Yeah, there's this one little section
within it that just doesn't want to bake.
[Noel] Whilst most bakers have enough
to worry about with one sponge...
[Antony] All right. Ow!
[Noel] ...Rahul has managed to make
his Signature challenge twice as hard.
I don't really want to over-bake them.
I don't want to under-bake them either.
[Noel] Rahul has planned a traybake
that's double-layered.
[Rahul] I did quite a lot of experiment
with this recipe.
I baked it, like,
five or six different versions of it.
[Sandi] Rahul often gets
his best baking ideas
whilst working out at his local
leisure centre in Rotherham.
It's inspired a seventh version of his
double-lemon jaconde sponge traybake
with Italian meringue buttercream
and now a drizzle made with the juice
of four lemons and 25 cardamom pods.
It does smell like, uh, disinfectant
so don't worry about that.
[coughs] Wow. That's strong.
Oh, my God.
So it does smell like disinfectant?
Well, I think I certainly wouldn't mind
cleaning the corners of my fridge with it.
Oh, wow, great.
[Sandi] No. I swear
it will taste delicious.
Right. I'm gonna go for it.
I think I'm gonna take it out.
[sing-song] Hallelujah.
-He is ginormous.
-[Dan] How thick is it?
Mine's probably gonna be
about that thick.
Oh, no, mine's like that.
[Ruby] Oh, mine's quite deep.
Well, good luck cooling it.
Oh, God.
[Noel] With time running out...
[Manon] Come on.
[Noel] ...the moment their sponges
are cool enough...
He's big.
[Noel] ...the bakers need to be ready
with all their fillings,
toppings and decorations.
Hopefully I'll squeeze it in,
in ten minutes.
Yeah, you know you're not
actually wearing a watch, right?
Just... just that's not
really helping you.
[Terry] Rum sauce. A tablespoon of rum in.
Just a little extra for Prue.
Hopefully she'll get the, um,
rum flavour from that.
Mixing together the honey and the sugar
and water for the turron.
My marmalade is simmering.
Ganache ganaching.
Maybe I've just done too many things.
At the moment I'm just piping some
chocolate shapes onto acetate
and they will stand upright
on top of the cake.
[Karen] I tried various things
for the topping
unsuccessfully
and I wanted to use the marzipan
and I just got a flash of inspiration.
I just thought,
edible food paint. Metallic.
So it's beautiful and shiny.
[Sandi] Since recently becoming
a grandmother for the first time,
Karen has been devoting
her creative energies
into artistic bakes for her family.
Now then, this seal, do they have legs?
[Karen's husband] No. They're flippers.
[Sandi] Her striped marzipan
will sit on an almond sponge
layered with a tart rhubarb jam.
[Karen] I've done the stripy bits
although I could titivate for a while
but I'm just putting
some beautiful glitter on it.
Why wouldn't you?
Full disco.
[Noel] Sandi, we need to do a time call.
Yeah, no, I'm skipping this one.
Bakers, you only have
15 minutes remaining.
So that's a slight worry.
[Terry] I shall have to caramelise my
nuts a bit quicker.
Now, it's messy.
[Briony] Turron can set quite quickly
so I have to make
that kinda at the last minute.
Ooh, it's gonna be a rush at the end.
Pushing it a little bit.
Just putting my drizzle into my cake.
I'm just spreading
my Italian meringue buttercream.
I'm reasonably happy. I think
Ruby's struggling with cooling it down.
[Ruby] It's still way too hot.
[Sandi] Quite warm now, isn't it?
It is very warm.
Ah, cheers for that, Sandi.
-Is that better?
-That's amazing.
Right, here we go.
Turron on. It's so sticky.
Mine's roasting.
This bad boy just needs to go
and chill in the fridge though.
[Briony] It's too hot. It's gonna melt.
This is gonna look a mess!
[Antony] God, I've gotta get
16 pieces off this.
[Noel] The judges have demanded
identical, crisp, clean slices.
[Karen] This is all about precision.
Hopefully get it looking relatively even.
So I've divided in four and each four
is gonna be divided into four more.
[counting in French]
[in English] Sorry. So I need to do...
Uh...
Oh, God. They're looking hot.
Some are bit bigger than others. Oops.
They look so messy and rubbish.
[Ruby] They might not be as finished
as I'd like them to be,
but they'll be there.
It's hotting up.
[Terry] So now the ganache is melting.
[Luke] I'd like to take a bit more
care in doing this
but I just haven't got time at the moment.
Bakers, you have one minute remaining.
[Kim-Joy] Oops.
[Ruby] Oh, you mucky pup.
[Dan] Finished.
[Briony] What a mess.
Bakers, your time is up.
-Oh. Done.
-You're done.
-We're done.
[Rahul] Look at everyone's.
Just pretty and pretty and pretty.
Pretty, pretty, pretty.
[Briony] Oh, dear.
[birds chirping]
[Sandi] It's judgement time
for the bakers' Signature traybakes.
-Hello, Rahul.
-Hi.
They are quite elegant and it reminds me
of an afternoon tea
in a five-star hotel 'cause they look like
they're finger sandwiches.
-Oh.
-[Prue] Let's have a taste.
You certainly get the lemon
and the cardamom
and they're in the right proportion.
I think that's very good.
For something that looks
like a wholemeal finger sandwich,
they taste beautiful.
Sigh of relief.
-Yeah.
-Thank you.
Cheers. Thanks.
[Prue] It's quite a tough sponge.
[Paul] And it's a bit bland as well.
Okay.
[Prue] You really have got the balance
of the coconut and the frangipane
absolutely perfect.
It's very delicate.
Not as powerful as I thought it'd be.
It is a little bit of a mess...
-Thanks, Paul.
-...but I think it's a pretty decent
traybake.
Tough as old boots.
And the top is very sloppy
so you've got sloppy and tough.
[Sandi] Sounds like a terrible double act,
Sloppy and Tough.
You were right about the rum.
It's very rummy.
[Paul] Because the amount of apple
that you've put in there,
it brings flavour.
Blending that with the raisin, the rum,
I think you have a beautiful,
traditional traybake.
Not very sophisticated
but a real pleasure to eat.
[mouths] Thank you.
[Paul] I think they look very elegant.
-You have kept it simple
-Yes.
but it is down to that sponge.
I think the marzipan's a bit too thick
for that amount of sponge.
[Paul] The sponge is very dry.
That's a shame
'cause they look great.
Thank you very much for your
feedback. That's great.
[Prue] They look really elegant.
They look all the same size.
Very neat. Oh, lovely colour.
I love that pale green.
That comes from the pandan leaf,
doesn't it?
Yeah.
I love the chiffon. That is lovely.
Textures are perfect.
The look of it is perfect.
-But I just don't like the pandan.
-No, I accept that.
Some people don't.
[Paul] For me it's not the right flavour
to go in a traybake
but I admire the fact that you did it
because that chiffon's perfect.
I really hope they taste okay.
-So do I, um, 'cause they look hideous.
-[laughing]
[Briony] I know! I know. I'm sorry.
-[Prue] It's divine.
-Is it? Oh.
There you go.
Honestly, I don't care the way it looks.
-Really?
-Yeah.
I have to have another bite.
The almonds in there, the turron as well.
The whole thing together.
The orange. It's delicious.
-Absolutely lovely.
-Oh, thank you.
Can't believe I'm crying over a traybake.
[all laughing]
Well, I have to say
they look very elegant.
Thank you.
I'm not quite sure I'd like a whole
piece of rosemary leaf in my mouth.
Right.
[Prue] But you've got chopped rosemary
inside, haven't you?
Yes, yes.
[Prue] I'll tell you what, it's delicious
when you do get a bit of rosemary.
The Italian meringue, it tastes fine,
it just needed more whipping.
Chocolate goes well with it as well.
Sponge is good but it's down
to those little elegant touches
and I think you lost it slightly
with the Italian meringue.
Thank you.
It looks like a forest floor.
[gasps] Okay.
[Paul] It's a mess. It's broken apart
as you've tried to portion this
'cause some are thin, some are thick.
I think as a chocolate cake goes
it's fantastic.
-[Ruby] Yeah.
-I mean very, very good.
The biggest issue is that
you don't get any cherry.
Right, okay.
[Paul] Maybe more kirsch in there
would have helped as well.
[Prue] Oh, I'm not sure about the kirsch
but I could eat that
with a great deal of pleasure though.
Oh, good. Phew.
Well, the decoration
is absolutely excellent.
Everything is very neat.
You pipe very well.
It's not too thick. Impressive.
Thank you.
[Paul] I think they look amazing.
Good interior.
Mmm. Nice and boozy.
Come on. Say something nice.
-Like your T-shirt.
-Just doing my best here.
That'll do.
Oh, wow.
[all applauding]
Thank you very much.
What I like about it,
it looks incredible.
But when you get inside and you do hit
that cherry and the kirsch
sits there and then the topping,
it's just a really nice cake.
I could sit and eat the whole lot.
He's blushing. He's actually blushing.
I am. [chuckles]
I thought he was joking, like, I was
waiting for him to go, "Just kidding."
[Briony] And I said I wouldn't cry
and I did cry. [laughs]
They were tears of happiness though.
[Ruby] I was always expecting Paul
to have a gripe
but "forest floor"? He is savage.
[Noel] The bakers were able
to practice their traybakes
but with ingredients shrouded in gingham,
the cake they'll take on next
is a total mystery.
Right bakers, time for your
Technical challenge,
-which today has been set for you by Prue.
-[sighs]
Any words of advice?
Go like the clappers.
You don't have much time.
[Sandi] Wow. That's made
everybody feel good, right?
Off you two go and carry on
with your extreme ironing...
whatever you're doing.
For your Technical challenge today,
Prue would like you to make
an impression of a cake.
Quite literally.
It's her version
of the Impressionist painter
Claude Monet's favourite birthday treat,
le gâteau vert.
You need to make a light
delicate pistachio genoise sponge.
-Green.
-Mmm-hmm.
Sandwiched with a pistachio
crème au beurre.
-More green.
-And covered in a fondant
coloured green with...
-Spinach?
-Yes.
[laughs] That's a complete fluke.
[exhales]
[Sandi] You have two and a quarter-hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake.
Oh, there's actually spinach.
I thought he was joking.
[Sandi] For the Technical challenge,
the bakers have identical ingredients...
This is absolutely ridiculous.
[Sandi] ...and Prue's pared-down recipe.
[exclaims]
In shock.
I don't even know what I'm making.
Prue. Gâteau vert. Claude Monet cake.
What on earth are you thinking?
[Prue] One of the reasons
why I really love this cake
is because not only was it one
of Claude Monet's favourite cakes
but he had it every year on his birthday.
[Paul] So how does it get that
beautiful green colour?
[Prue] It's some spinach puree.
The thicker the puree, the more green
you can get into the fondant.
[Paul] Those layers look amazing.
The most usual problem with genoise
is not getting the volume.
It has to be at least an inch and a bit
so that you can cut it into three
and it'll be light and delicious.
[Paul] That is beautiful. This is about
the basics being done well
and I think at this early stage
it's a fantastic challenge.
The person who keeps their head
will do the best
because there's a real danger of panicking
when you see how much you've got to do.
If Prue Leith says you've got to hurry,
I guess that means you've got to hurry.
"Make the genoise sponge." Okay.
It's actually my favourite sponge
to make. Fingers crossed.
"Place the sugar and eggs
in a large bowl."
You have to whisk it for quite
a high speed, for quite a long time.
All of the lift comes from just
whisking the eggs.
So that's gonna be the tricky bit.
I'm just gonna time it,
how long I'm going to whisk it.
I think I'll say about eight minutes.
[beeping]
"Fold in pistachios and flour mixture,
butter and lemon zest."
Don't want to knock out any of the air.
What I take now is a little bit
of the genoise
and mix it in with the butter
'cause then I find it easier
to fold it into the rest of it.
I'm just a bit concerned about this.
Oh, I know what I've done wrong.
It seems I should have done
something with this
and I didn't and I don't know whether
I should have separated the eggs.
This is not gonna go well.
[Sandi] But Karen
isn't the only baker struggling.
I should have done the whites
separately I think.
Softly. Gently.
It's a question of whether I just
abandon ship or go back?
I'm gonna go with it.
[Karen] I'm trying again.
So, starting from beginning.
It just says, "bake."
For... I don't know. It just says "bake."
[Kim-Joy] I'm baking for ten minutes
initially then I'll check on it.
Think it'll be about 15.
Just going for unlucky 13.
[Dan] I'm sure it'll need
at least 20 minutes.
Let's come back in 20.
Eighteen minutes.
[Sandi] Right, bakers,
that's half an hour gone.
So that'll be like a biscuit.
-[Noel] Sandi, that was magnificent.
-Thanks, Noel.
-I mean I'm not actually meant to be here.
-I know.
I just love watching you work.
-Thank you so much.
-Okay.
So now I'm gonna make the marzipan.
Finely grind the pistachios.
"Add the icing sugar and combine."
No one got time to be making marzipan.
You just go and buy it.
I've made marzipan before.
"Add the egg whites and pistachio essence.
Knead until smooth, wrap in cling film
and leave to rest."
I actually quite liked Monet
as well before this.
[Noel] Do you like Monet though?
Um, I'm not sure who he is.
I know Monet
but I've never seen this cake.
He did the water lilies.
Yeah.
Right.
Do you like Van Gogh? You know Van Gogh.
Yeah. Done his ear in,
didn't he, you know.
-One ear.
-[laughs]
[Ruby] My cake does not look right at all.
Oh, it's pretty poor.
I don't want to be scolded for baking
after this morning
saying I had "tough as old boots" sponge,
I don't want to do it again.
Oh, my God, his looks so good.
I think I would go with that.
It's come out how I expected it
to come out. Looking like a cake.
[Karen] It hasn't risen.
But, anyway...
Oh, mate, this is a disaster.
It's sunk.
[Terry] Nope. I don't know
whether to start again.
I'm making the cake again.
Like, I've got a flat one
and I can always use that in an emergency
but I need another one.
Started my sponge again. Oh, God.
"Make la crème au beurre."
Crème au beurre is, well,
buttercream basically.
"Add the spinach and cook until wilted."
[Sandi] The colours in a gâteau vert
are all natural.
-Oh, man.
-Oh, look at that.
Look at that. That is green, isn't it?
-It's quite weird...
-Yeah.
'Cause we're making cake
but it smells like...
-And it smells like...
-Weird...
Smells like health, doesn't it?
...boiled cabbage.
[Sandi] Unless the bakers
ensure they squeeze
every drop of water
from their pureed spinach...
[Rahul] Let's see how much it is
at the moment.
[Sandi] ...their crème au beurre
and fondant topping...
[Kim-Joy] Oh.
[Sandi] ...won't have the vivid green
appearance that Monet loved.
[groans] Okay, yeah, that's the weirdest
thing I've ever done for a cake.
That's a full sack. [laughs]
Spinach-flavoured crème au beurre.
[Ruby] My conscience saying,
"That's not good."
Well, I hope this one works
'cause I definitely won't have
a chance to do this one again.
This time I've beaten my egg whites first.
[Sandi] As Dan and Terry begin baking
a second genoise sponge...
See how we get on with that.
[Sandi] ...the rest of the bakers need
to cut theirs into three equal layers.
[Karen] How anybody's gonna slice
that into three is anybody's guess.
When I'm doing this I can see
where I'm at.
[Antony] My knife skills
are pretty questionable.
[Ruby] Oh, oh.
Ooh.
Okay, we've got one layer.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
That is bad. Very bad.
[Terry] Second time out. I would have
preferred a bigger rise on the sponge
but, hey.
Starting again. Everyone must be
looking at me, "Has he lost the plot?"
[Dan] Oh, there's so much to do.
[Sandi] Bakers, you have
half an hour remaining.
That was the best time call of the year.
Oh, thanks.
Actually, sorry, second best.
Gonna have to take that back.
Wow. I had an acceptance speech
and everything ready.
That's the most gracious
defeat of the year.
Oh, thanks so much.
Sorry, second. Second place.
[Luke] I would have liked to have
spent a bit more time
prepping it and folding it all together,
but just time's not on my side.
"Sandwich together
with the crème au beurre."
So you're looking for that silky texture.
[Ruby] That is absolute liquid.
[Terry] That's very thin towards the end.
[Briony] "Cover the top and the sides
of the sponge with marzipan."
I made marzipan.
[Luke] Oh, come on.
Please just hurry up and cook.
Keen to get this excess off
'cause it's weighing it down.
[Jon] Quite pleased
with the marzipan actually.
It's, uh, looking all right.
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
[Luke] Right, this is coming out. I don't
think it's any better than the other one.
Right, what's next?
"Coat the cake with the icing."
It looks pretty green, isn't it?
[Luke] I'm just choosing the best bits
from, like, the sponges I've made.
We'll cheat a bit.
[Antony] Oh, God. Such a mess.
[Luke] Starting to come together
a bit now.
Finally.
Says, "Elegantly decorate
with chopped pistachios
and edible flowers."
Can't believe I've managed to do this
to be honest.
Bakers, your time is up.
I'm walking away.
It's a little ring of beauty, isn't it?
It looks like something.
Please place your gâteau vert
behind your photograph on the table.
[Sandi] Paul and Prue
are expecting gâteau vert
with three even layers
of pistachio genoise sponge,
pistachio marzipan and spinach-coloured
fondant and crème au beurre.
And they won't know whose is whose.
Right, shall we start with this one?
-[Prue] Lovely colour.
-It's got a nice colour, hasn't it?
[Prue] That looks like the proper layers.
-[Paul] That's a nice cake.
-Delicious, isn't it?
The crème au beurre
and the genoise are fantastic.
The pistachio comes through.
Now the colour's all wrong
on this. [chuckles]
The layers aren't too bad.
Nice flavour.
[Paul] Moving on. Now, it's lost all
the height, hasn't it?
[Prue] Yeah.
[Paul] Looks quite wet as well.
[Prue] It's a bit puddingy to be honest.
-[Paul] Okay, moving on. Nice colour.
-It is.
[Prue] That is very nice.
[Paul] It does taste good.
[Prue] It's quite a rounded cake.
[Paul] How have they achieved that?
The layers aren't too bad.
Flavour's okay. The filling's good
and the sponge is all right.
Now, this one looks quite nice
when you initially look at it.
The layers are equal.
The flavour's all right.
[Prue] Mmm. Mmm.
[Paul] You seem to have lost
a couple of the layers here.
The crème au beurre,
seem to have lost some of it.
It's quite stodgy, isn't it?
[Prue] I think it's a bit overcooked.
[mouthing] Oh, my God.
[Paul] Okay. I worry about this one.
First of all it's very thin.
They've knocked all the air out
the genoise and the colour's wrong.
Where are the layers?
[Prue] Very rubbery.
Undercooked cake. That's sad.
[Paul] I quite like the look of this.
[Prue] I do too. It's very pretty.
[Paul] The cake looks very good.
Tastes of pistachio.
Really beautiful sponge.
[Paul] I quite like this one as well.
It's got a bit of height to it.
That's a lot of icing on there.
[Prue] The cake is lovely.
[Paul] Right, moving onto the last one.
This looks bone-dry on the side
with the flooding of fondant on the top.
-[Prue] It is.
-It's a bit of a mess.
-And it's, um, over-decorated.
-Yes, it is.
[Prue] The sponge is quite light.
[Paul] But not very high.
[Noel] Prue and Paul will now rank
the cakes from worst to best.
In 11th place we have this one.
Karen. You know what's the matter with it,
it wasn't cooked.
In tenth is this one.
Quite stodgy inside actually.
[Noel] In ninth place is Antony.
Terry is eighth.
Seventh is Luke.
Manon is sixth.
Briony fifth.
And Kim-Joy is fourth.
In third place we have this one.
Dan, it looks lovely and it tasted great.
So in second spot
is this one. Whose is this?
Pretty good, Rahul. Nice cake. Well done.
Which means number one we have Jon.
Yes.
There's nothing to say about this,
it's just a lovely cake.
Thank you. Cheers.
That was amazing. Absolutely spot-on.
That is up there. Kids, wedding day,
and that. [laughs] That's there.
-Well done, mate.
-Oh, yeah, definitely.
Yeah, it's okay. I'm just quite
scared about what's coming next.
It was technical and it was a challenge.
So, yes.
[Karen] What I always do
when I have a disappointment
is sort of crash down like this
and normally within a short space of time,
I bounce straight back again.
So, watch this space for tomorrow. Yeah.
[Sandi] Just the Showstopper challenge
remains
before we discover
who will be our second Star Baker
and who'll be leaving the tent.
Coming into the Showstopper,
I think Dan's done well. First handshake.
He is in line for Star Baker
along with Jon.
[Prue] Rahul has been consistently
near the top.
Some people need to fight
and that would include Manon.
Terry has to be in there
as well, and Karen.
Her gâteau vert was a complete disaster.
[Paul] And likewise,
Luke struggled in the Signature.
Didn't do particularly well either
in the Technical.
And I would include Ruby in that.
You said her traybake looked
like a forest floor.
It did. The Showstopper
today involves chocolate.
And it's going to be extremely hot today.
It's gonna be a very
challenging last bake for somebody.
Too hot for a goth.
I'll probably melt.
Hello, bakers,
time for your Showstopper challenge.
Paul and Prue would love you to make
a chocolate collar cake.
The cake can be any flavour that you like
but it must be at least two tiers.
Encased in chocolate that wraps
all the way around the cake,
hence the name, "chocolate collar."
The design must be eye-catching
and of course,
the cake must be delish.
[Sandi] You have four hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake.
Good lord, I am roasting.
It's much hotter than chocolate
likes to be.
[Prue] It's one thing to make a cake
but unless you're a chocolatier,
you are not likely to make
a chocolate collar.
Now the chocolate collar itself is all
about the tempering of the chocolate,
setting on the acetate and then placing it
around the cake of their choice.
You have to be part-architect on this.
[Prue] Nobody in their right mind
would be dealing with chocolate
on a day like today.
But they're going to have to.
-Hello, Jon.
-Hello, Jon. You all right?
How are you all? All right?
Well, that looks like pineapple cake.
I'm doing a pina colada cake
'cause I like pina colada
and getting caught in the rain.
[Sandi] Jon's pineapple sponge
with coconut buttercream
will be wrapped in a collar,
which should bring
his tropical Showstopper together.
My collar is an Hawaiian shirt going
round the outside.
[Sandi] I can't think
how you thought of it.
-[Jon] Well, where would that come from?
-[chuckles]
Out of the top of my head
or out of my wardrobe. Either one.
[Noel] Antony's also raided the wardrobe
for inspiration.
The collar is a sari,
which is worn by most Indian women.
Let's hope I get it down to the T.
[Sandi] His sari collar
will wrap pistachio
and rose water sponge
with saffron buttercream.
The flavours are my mum's favourite
flavours, so it is a dedication to her.
My mum doesn't like chocolate,
so my sponge is orange
and the cream is chocolate.
[Noel] Ruby's future rests on her mum's
favourite orange liqueur sponge.
Just a splash.
[Noel] Sandwiched
with a chocolate mascarpone
and hazelnut cream,
all wrapped in a collar straight
from the walls of an art gallery.
My collar is inspired by Jackson Pollock.
Some might just say it's a mess.
Some might say that's very strategic of me
to have a messy collar.
[Sandi] The judges have
demanded that the bakers wrap collars
around at least two tiers
of delicious sponge.
[Briony] It's gonna be chocolate cake,
salted caramel cake, chocolate cake
and there'll be three tiers of that.
[Sandi] And while some
are going above and beyond,
hoping to avoid an early exit...
[humming]
[Sandi] ...Terry is aiming even higher.
My chocolate collar cake
is going to be the Eiffel Tower.
Two tiers of sponge
and then a lace chocolate topping.
That's quite brave.
Yeah.
[Sandi] Have you practised in heat?
[Terry] I've practised in heat.
I've had my central heating
whacked up to 80 degrees,
working in the kitchen with the oven on.
I hate to see my bill
when it comes through
[Sandi] Terry's tower will rest
on a white chocolate sponge
filled with champagne buttercream
and topped with strawberries.
It's a very summery
sort of flavoured sponge
and strawberries, champagne,
Paris, you can't go wrong.
All right, Tez.
Oh. [laughs]
Oh, perfect Paris. Marie-Antoinette.
-Exactly. All right.
-Yes.
Made a big sacrifice, so you better win.
This is what I do for you kids, all right?
So make it count in the baking.
That is quite a costume.
I'm going in the oven.
Ah!
[Noel] The bakers now face an epic test
of their ability to multitask.
Bake, angels, bake.
[Noel] With several
different-sized sponges...
So I'm gonna put this little one here,
so I can keep an eye.
[Noel] ...they'll have to keep track
of multiple baking times.
Six inches will take about 45 minutes.
Uh, eight inches will take about an hour.
[Noel] ...whilst at the same time
prepare their showstopping fillings
and decorations.
I'm trying to do a chocolate sail
if possible.
So that's why I'm making two
instead of one.
If one fails, then at least I have
something to put it on the top.
[Sandi] Rahul's sail
will join chocolate shards
and an ornate Bengalian-inspired collar,
wrapping triple-layered chocolate
and orange sponges
with a white chocolate Swiss meringue.
You're doing crème au beurre,
Swiss meringue buttercream,
your collars...
-I'm doing a lot.
-Two different types of sponges...
Yeah, I'm just literally running around
like a headless chicken now.
So I'm just gonna do it a little bit early
and then put it in the fridge for a bit,
just to set it a bit.
But I quite like
Swiss meringue buttercream
because it's quite good to do the coating
and crème au beurre is quite,
like, similar,
so it's very good to stack things
up together.
So that's why I'm doing two buttercreams.
But again, if I run out of time
I might have no crème au beurre.
I'd just literally do everything
with Swiss meringue buttercream.
Very succinctly put.
[Paul] Thank you very much
indeed. Look forward to it.
-Thank you.
-Thank you. Cheers.
[Sandi] Kim-Joy's Showstopper...
-Grr.
-...is a little more focused.
[Kim-Joy] They're just, like,
little cat silhouettes.
Thought it'll look kinda fun, like,
with them playing all around it.
[Sandi] Her cats will chase a ribbon
around a white chocolate collar
that surrounds genoise sponge
filled with yuzu curd
and topped with even more cats
made with fondant.
[Kim-Joy] I think I get
a lot of influences from Japan.
Also, kinda makes sense because,
like, cats wear collars, don't they?
So let's hope it's not a cat-astrophe.
[Noel] After a disappointing first day,
a catastrophic Showstopper
isn't an option for Manon.
So when I was an au pair,
I used to look after a little girl
that I used to love dressing up
as a little princess,
so this cake is for her.
[Sandi] She's aiming for a fairy-tale
ending to Cake Week
with a fondant princess
and prince for an almond castle cake
wrapped in a crown of white chocolate
and dark chocolate ramparts.
[Noel] Sandi's had an accident.
[laughs] Sandi,
get up. It's okay.
That's fantastic.
[Noel] Is that me and Sandi?
Yeah, well, that's you fast asleep
and that's Sandi, she's pissed off
because you're late.
-Uh, I think...
-I don't think you can say that.
You've been looking at the wrong script.
[all laughing]
[Noel] Ninety minutes remaining.
[Kim-Joy] I think it needs
a few more minutes.
I don't want to bother them for too long.
It doesn't look that bad.
It actually... I think it's cooked.
Woof.
They've risen a lot better
than the one at home.
They'll need about another
ten minutes or so.
Just gonna get these bad boys
out and onto a cooling rack. Whoa.
Oh.
Oh, no.
Stodgy slash raw.
Even though it was in there longer
than it would be in my oven at home.
Yeah, that's just raw. [groans]
[Noel] Briony needs to bake three tiers
of chocolate fudge
and salted caramel cake
and fill them with salted caramel
vodka buttercream,
and she plans to wrap them
in a dark chocolate collar
with peanut butter brushstrokes.
I can't serve them raw cake. That's just
not happening. I just have to remake it.
Where's my recipe gone?
Right, take a breath. Take a breath.
It's looking okay. That one is
but the other one is looking very dubious.
[Sandi] Before they can wrap
a collar around their cakes...
They feel nice and bouncy.
[Sandi] The bakers will need to cover
the rough edges of their cooled sponges.
Oh, I'm just trying
to make a crème au beurre.
I have a lot going on as usual.
All right, we're now tipping off some
really good saffron. Smells delicious.
[Sandi] But while most bakers are making
a flavoured buttercream
for their crumb coat,
Luke has chosen a more luxurious approach.
Just whipping
the double cream together now.
I'm doing the last bit by hand
'cause it can all of a sudden
just over-whip.
[Sandi] He's making a whipped double cream
and white chocolate crumb coat
for a triple-tiered raspberry
and white chocolate cake,
which he'll wrap in an art deco collar.
[Luke] I've now folded
in the white chocolate.
It needs to cool a bit 'cause in this
temperature it's just gonna,
not get on well. [chuckles]
Bakers, you have one hour.
-Just one hour.
-[exclaims]
They're still warm. In an ideal world,
you would never do this.
He is a biggie.
[Briony] Gonna start with the smallest
tier and then work my way up.
'Cause obviously the other ones
are still in the oven.
I'm just concerned that the buttercream
is melting as it goes on the cake.
It's quite runny. Ah!
My buttercream is just wilting.
Want to get this neater.
Oh, it's just melting like crazy.
This is awful. Time is running away fast.
[Noel] But avoiding molten crumb coats
is just the first battle
in the bakers' war against the heat.
Absolute nightmare.
Oh, lordy, lordy. It's hot.
Tempering chocolate
is gonna be the most difficult bit
in terms of the conditions
that we're in.
Yeah, so you basically wanna heat it up
and then almost cool it back down.
There's more to it than that.
I'm not saying I know everything
about chocolate tempering.
Bring it up to 38 degrees and then...
no, bring it up to 43 degrees
and then bring it down
to 40... 30, I think.
Basically, chocolate has different
types of crystals in it.
So, what you do
is when you heat the chocolate,
they kind of break down all the crystals
and then you cool it quickly so that
some crystal starts forming again.
[Karen] It sounds a bit funny, doesn't it?
Basically, when you get your chocolates
from your chocolate shop
and they've got a lovely gloss on them,
that's tempered chocolate.
[Noel] Karen's tempering dark chocolate
to wrap two tiers
of rich chocolate cake
filled with strawberry jam
and soaked in a home-made
strawberry liqueur.
But staying in the competition
may depend on her
successfully decorating her collar
with hand-piped lyrics
from a fitting folk song.
♪ As I was going through
Strawberry fayre ♪
♪ Singing, singing buttercups and daises ♪
♪ I met a maiden selling her wares
Do, do, do ♪
It's basically about a prostitute, right?
No, it's about a young lady
that meets a young suitor
-and she tempts him with her wares...
-Her wares?
...on her way to strawberry fayre.
[Sandi] Dan's collar decoration
will be a little less freehand.
[Dan] I've done it twice in practice.
I don't do things timed.
I can't get four hours of undisturbed time
in my house,
so I don't actually do it
against the clock.
[Sandi] Dan still needs to cover his
red-coloured white chocolate stripes
in dark chocolate,
for a collar to surround chocolate
and raspberry cakes
with raspberry Italian
meringue buttercream.
[Dan] Hopefully, there'll be enough
of a pattern in that one
'cause I can't wait any longer.
How long have we got left?
Bakers, you have half an hour.
Thirty minutes left.
I'm just gonna have to chill this fast.
Whoa. I'm happy with this one.
It's way too hot to be cutting it
but don't have time to mess around.
This is the worst day ever
for doing chocolate.
[Jon] ♪ I like pina colada ♪
My hands are wobbling really badly.
[exhales sharply]
So I'm gonna put the white chocolate
in between
but obviously need to be quite careful
with the temperatures.
There's something about a sari
that's just extremely beautiful.
India's all about the colour
and the drama.
[Manon] Yay!
So I don't want too many wrinkles
or anything that's gonna distort.
[Ruby] Jackson Pollock would probably
just whack it on
but in the same breath,
he's not being judged.
Bakers, you have ten minutes.
[whispering] Is that right?
[Manon] At home, five minutes,
the chocolate is set.
Here...
[Rahul] Oh, no, it's melting.
I have just gotta get it round the cake.
[Rahul] Just going to put this in as well.
You need to just gauge it
because if you leave it too long
it's not flexible.
You've only got a few minutes
really, in which to get it on.
Oh.
[Dan] Oh, it's way too stiff now.
I wussed out.
Solidly wussed out there.
[Kim-Joy] Making sure that they are okay.
I just need to commit and just do it.
Just commit.
I am just gonna go with it.
This just acts as setting spray.
Just breathe.
[sighs] It just won't go on.
It's just wet.
It shouldn't be like this at all.
Now, it's gonna go in the fridge.
♪ Say a little prayer for me ♪
It's not gone to plan.
I've really messed up.
How many minutes do we have left?
[Noel] Bakers, you have five minutes left.
If you were gonna panic, now's the time.
Under pressure.
[Terry] I'm not happy with that.
It's gonna cool it.
Oh, it's just all completely melted.
It hasn't set because the air is too hot.
It's not set. My hands are so warm
as well, I can't even touch it.
The bottom collar,
I just didn't have time to remake.
Oh, it's soft. It's just absolutely...
I'm just gonna leave it on.
It just didn't set.
Oh.
[chuckles]
That is just unbelievably bad.
Whoa.
[Noel] Bakers, your time is up.
Done.
Please step away from your
chocolate collar cakes.
I mean, it would be really nice
if the bottom one
had a chocolate collar on it.
[Luke] Paul and Prue will be saying,
"I thought this was art deco."
More like art nightmare.
Are you all right?
You okay? What happened?
I just, I can't take the acetate off.
-It's not setting. [sniffles]
-It's okay.
[Noel] It's judgment time
for the bakers' Showstoppers.
Dan, would you like to bring
your Showstopper up please.
[Prue] I'm really impressed
because with this heat to get a collar
round it at all is an event.
[Paul] I think you've done an amazing job
and the stripes are beautiful.
[Prue] Well, that's beautiful.
It's rich and moist. It's delicious.
The Swiss meringue with the raspberries
is bringing a tartness,
married with the chocolate and the collar,
that's mighty impressive. Well done, Dan.
Thank you.
[Prue] I'm really impressed
with the cats. They make you smile.
Better taste as good as it looks.
The sponge is quite firm.
It is slightly too dry.
[Paul] It looks fantastic.
I do, I do like the colours.
-Wow.
-[Prue] Wow.
[Prue] The colours are just amazing.
I'm not getting pistachio.
There is no pistachio
to blend with the saffron.
It's just saffron in my mouth,
so it tastes almost savoury.
[Paul] I think it looks amazing.
I love the piping.
The sheen you've got
on the chocolate is very good.
The collar's very neat.
That is really lovely chocolate cake.
It melts in the mouth, which is perfect.
Fair play to you. That's a great job.
Well, that's great to hear.
Thank you so much.
I can't fault it.
It's simple and highly effective.
You've got a great sheen
on that chocolate.
[Prue] I think it looks amazing.
It is tender. The pineapple
has made it very moist.
I think the sponge is fantastically baked
and the coconut really
works with it as well.
[Prue] And I really love your design.
Very good.
-[Paul] Well done.
-Thank you very much. Cheers.
Luke, would you like to bring
up your Showstopper please.
Not really. [laughs]
Sorry about that.
-Cream in this sort of heat...
-Yeah.
White chocolate in this sort of heat...
-Let's see what it tastes like.
-It might taste wonderful.
[exhales]
The flavour is delicious
but the cake is tough.
I'll eat the raspberries
and cream all day,
especially with the white chocolate.
-Your sponge isn't good.
-Is it not good?
[Paul] It's a nice-looking sponge.
What's going on?
Why wasn't this taken off?
[Manon] Basically,
my chocolate didn't set.
Well, it's set now.
And now it's off, this chocolate
is beautifully tempered
and absolutely shining.
[Paul] Okay.
[Prue] That's a very nice sponge.
I think it's a very, very nice cake.
Very smart.
-Thank you.
-That's a shame
you didn't take the acetate off. [laughs]
Well, I have to say, I think the way
you've done the iron work is brilliant.
It may only be half the Eiffel Tower
but everybody knows what it is.
-Yes.
-Okay.
What I'm mostly getting is the sweetness
of the buttercream
and the cake is a bit boring.
[inhales sharply]
-Bad luck, Terry.
-No problem.
-Thank you, Terry.
-You're welcome.
-We only asked you for two tiers.
-[Briony] Yes. I know. I know.
-So you did get collar round two.
-Yes.
[Paul] We'll have a look at your
sponge now.
[Paul chuckles]
Oh, look at that. That is very beautiful.
Thank you.
Your sponge is over-baked.
You can see by the colour on the outside,
how dark that is
and the others are like rubber.
I agree with you that the texture
of the cakes are not right
but I think the flavours are lovely.
Okay. Thank you.
Wow. It's a wonderful construction.
I'm really impressed that you managed
to keep it together
and it hasn't all fallen down.
[Paul] Based on the weather today
and the heat,
I think you've done an unbelievable job.
Not just to do two collars
but to do these little pipework
across the top as well
and then do the shards on top of that.
-I'm impressed, Rahul.
-Thank you.
You can hear that crack. It's beautiful.
[Paul] Very bold, strong colours.
Fantastic.
Rahul, can you come here a minute please?
[inhales sharply]
Ah!
I've never given a handshake
for a Showstopper before.
Thank you.
That is a fantastic cake.
Well done, Rahul.
[Prue] Well done, Rahul.
It really is very elegant
and very restrained.
-Thank you.
-It's classy.
I can just tell by the way
you're cutting it
that the sponge is beautifully cooked.
I can sit here eating this
for an hour or so.
Oh. Phew.
-[Prue] It's just delicious.
-Thank you.
Come here, Ruby.
Ah, yes! Yes! Yes!
Woo.
That cake. That sponge.
The flavour in there.
The hazelnut and the chocolate.
Every element comes through.
Perfectly.
The collar is so elegant.
The brittle on the top.
That's a fine cake.
Oh, thank you. Oh, I'm made up.
[exhales]
When Prue said that she could sit there
and eat my cake all day long?
Buzzing. I'm really happy
with Paul's handshake.
Would never take that back now,
like, I'm pleased that one's in the bag
but... I wanted to impress Prue.
-Good job. Yay.
-[Ruby] Amazing.
When Paul invited me to the table,
I just first thought that
maybe I have left something stupidly
inside the cake, you know, like,
I was poking it with a cocktail stick.
Maybe I left a cocktail stick inside
or something, so he wanted to show me.
Yeah. That was very surreal.
There weren't any surprises. No.
I'm surprised they even wanted
to judge it to be honest.
You know it's only a cake.
The logical side of you knows
it's only a cake... [sniffles]
And at the end of the day,
it's not the end of the world.
-It weren't as bad as mine at least.
-[both chuckle]
Look at it that way.
At least you had a collar on it.
[both laughing]
[Sandi] Prue and Paul must now decide
who will be our second Star Baker
and who will have to leave the tent.
It was an extraordinary day
because we went in very clear
about the people who were in trouble
and all that has changed.
I was so pleased with Ruby and Karen
because they looked in such trouble.
[Paul] And Manon. I think those
three people saved themselves.
I think we've got Luke and Terry
down at the bottom.
[Prue] Yeah, and they didn't even
look good, did they?
Briony's Showstopper
wasn't particularly good.
She let herself down.
She's better than that.
[Prue] The cake was stodgy.
I think when you look into Star Baker,
Jon did a great job
with his pineapple cake.
I think Rahul's done a fantastic job
and I also feel like Dan has been probably
the most consistent throughout all.
Absolutely steady.
[Noel] Quite amazing that
two handshakes happened.
I've never given a handshake
on a Showstopper before
but to give two,
I'm disappointed in myself.
-[all laughing]
-But the only reason...
We're disappointed with you, too.
-I know.
-Yeah.
[goat bleats]
Bakers, what a tremendous
cake-fuelled weekend
we have had
and I have the pleasure
of announcing the Star Baker.
The person who is this week's Star Baker
made a giant of a traybake,
has been technically consistent
and persuaded Paul to give his first ever
handshake in a Showstopper.
Rahul!
[all cheering and applauding]
Unfortunately, that means I get
to deliver the bad news.
The person who's leaving us
this week
is Luke.
I know. I know. Not my weekend, eh.
I'm just, like,
really gonna miss everybody here.
Ah, mate. Mate, I've lost my mate.
[Luke] I just can't believe
I've even made it
onto the show in the first place.
Just little old me,
who just like, bakes in his kitchen.
Started with his nan.
Taught himself.
But, hey, I still went in the tent.
I still had Paul and Prue try food
I've baked,
which is like, literally a dream of mine.
Next week. Next week...
I know. Next week. Get real.
I know. Thank you.
[Briony] I'm so relieved to still be here.
I'm not gonna cry. Not gonna cry. Nope.
No, I'm not. [laughs]
Still in it, Terry.
Still here.
[Terry] Still in shock I think.
It's a bit surreal actually,
how much you do want it.
I will return home tomorrow and practice,
practice, practice.
Well done, Rahul. Cheer up, mate.
Yeah, I will try, yeah. Thank you.
Yeah. Yeah, just my... Yeah,
my emotions goes a little bit crazy way.
It feels so surreal,
like, Paul's handshake and Star Baker.
Well done.
I just hope I didn't peak too early.